Gwenevere Abriel: Hello, I see smoking over there, are you
Ariel Mirabal: Hi.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi. I see smoking. I see a snake and a cigarette.
Gwenevere Abriel: Smoke in my office.
Ariel Mirabal: It's gone. I swear.
Gwenevere Abriel: My whole office is the planet.
Ariel Mirabal: I know I really, it's another goal. Actually, I need to quit smoking.
Gwenevere Abriel: Cigars it really all people are doing that and they're seeing some good success when you're really, really ready for it. You just let me know.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we'll put together a plan. OK. OK.
Ariel Mirabal: I keep saying it, but it's
Ariel Mirabal: Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do it really on purpose. Let's really market and will do will do some real specific thing.
Ariel Mirabal: Okay. Sorry, I'm trying to situate me okay I'm outside today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh that's GORGEOUS THAT IS SO BEAUTIFUL LIGHTING just beautiful. Alright.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so how some how's the tension in the house, house a little girl has your anger. How we doing
Ariel Mirabal: It's really good actually no tension in the house. It's been really nice getting along with everybody.
Ariel Mirabal: Usually in that way here. Everybody is super sweet. And I'm always very helpful. I try to be as helpful as I can in any way.
Ariel Mirabal: As a matter of fact, as soon as we got off the phone last week.
Ariel Mirabal: I immediately started working on those breath exercises and I showed my daughter a couple of times she actually tried to do it. It was really cute.
Ariel Mirabal: Cute.
Ariel Mirabal: But
Ariel Mirabal: He just thinks it's more like it. She thinks it's funny, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah. Well, I did do it, you know, and I do it, and I realized, too. After even in just a few days. I wasn't really sometimes I wouldn't really use the breathing exercises, but just really
Ariel Mirabal: I was able to just call my thoughts and I've been really calm and gentle with my daughter. You know, when it comes to the discipline and my voice. Okay, and things like that. So I've noticed the difference and myself. I've been doing really, really good. That's beautiful.
Gwenevere Abriel: You do seem quite different. I will say, I mean if you could sort of flashback and sort of picture how
Gwenevere Abriel: If you felt sort of emotional emotionally air regulated and what was going on when you first came in.
Gwenevere Abriel: As opposed to the way you're talking the way you were able to catch a thought that you didn't want to have or this calmness this access to choice that you can kind of shift the way your body's feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: That sounds really different than the way you were talking earlier.
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, I do feel a lot different than I did last week I definitely do I feel better. I feel
Ariel Mirabal: Like a little more, a little lighter. I don't feel as heavy with my thoughts and things. That's fantastic.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me what thought you used to counterbalance a negative one. So sometimes we get into negative thinking this is a negative thought about self other the future of the world. What did you counter it with it seemed to neutralize a negative thought would you use
Ariel Mirabal: I stopped and thought about the previous outcomes which my gets super angry, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: In the past I remember a couple of times. My daughter even covering her ears because my voice was out
Ariel Mirabal: And that broke my heart so bad, like it made me feel like I actually scared her. You know, trying to discipline her I scared her. And that's not what I want. And it really broke my heart so bad. So
Ariel Mirabal: That's something that I've actually carried with me for a long time since she was really, really small. I mean, she was probably like two but
Ariel Mirabal: I just now, that like, I'm starting to really think about
Ariel Mirabal: Like the reactions and things that that causes. So that's kind of what I did. I'm like, What do I want to see happen when we were like, afterwards, you know, what do I want her to feel like afterwards so
Ariel Mirabal: And I told you before, like in the past, I get so upset. Sometimes, and even in the moment I'll tell myself, okay. Don't get so mad, but then she'll keep screaming about the same thing. And I'm like, Okay, stop. You know, and then I end up
Ariel Mirabal: snapping at her that I don't want to do that. Last time I was able to just, just stop for some some reason I was just, and she did. She had, she had a couple of little bits and
Ariel Mirabal: What I've been doing was there's this little cartoon that she watches. It's like a little clip cartoon she sees sometimes come every now and then.
Ariel Mirabal: There's this little boy named costly and he's it showed he's not nice. Sometimes he's can get sometimes kind of mean and bossy, with his toys.
Ariel Mirabal: And then his friends don't want to help him anymore. His friends didn't want to play with them anymore.
Ariel Mirabal: So I was using that like a couple of times. She threw her fits. And she kind of has a temper. I'm feeling like she saw me a couple of times. Like stubbed my toe or something and call it a name because she gets mad at her toys and she'll like
Ariel Mirabal: chopping it down on something and I'm like, oh, whoa, whoa. Calm down. Don't get so mad at your toy. You know, so
Ariel Mirabal: Oh yes thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, it's a fun thing to
Gwenevere Abriel: Talk about the breathing was really cute. Wait till you see this is we say, well wait a minute, what about that stuffed animal. Let's see if we can get that stuff down and I'll do some belly breathing. Let's see if we can teach it.
Ariel Mirabal: And see
Gwenevere Abriel: How we have a little, little yoga session with with the bear and the lion and and right and they breathe through their nose. They've got a tiny little nose, you see their belly going out. There we go. And it can be game.
Right, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, instead of
Gwenevere Abriel: Law. She's learned that's how she might feel hammer hammer bad toy toy. And so no, now we can start this new thing and make it a game and we can be teaching and as she's teaching it. She's rehearsing it herself. How to do it. It's immersing and
Gwenevere Abriel: narrative that
Gwenevere Abriel: You're getting to see it. It's all just this adorable thing.
Ariel Mirabal: That's a good idea. Yeah.
Ariel Mirabal: It was really cute though. I love that. I love that a lot, but I've been able to just kind of tell myself like Okay, calm down. It's, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: Like I said, What do you want to see after after that. So I'll tell her, things like that. You don't want to be like pinky Petunia, you know, Pinky Petunia, kind of like the story I just told you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me about pinky Petunia, what ends up happening to pinky Petunia and when she doesn't solve her emotions. Very well. What happens to her.
Ariel Mirabal: So her friends kind of stop helping her and she's a pinky Petunia, she's beautiful pink flower and she needs her friends I guess to water her help her grow and
Ariel Mirabal: Water her and help her grow, you know, just like us and our friends, you know, water, the grass. So she needs her friends help, but when she starts being so mean to her friends. Nobody wants to help her anymore. So that's what I'm still thinking
Ariel Mirabal: So I always and she saw that story she started on her own. So I always I just remind her
Ariel Mirabal: Sometimes when she's outside and she'll throw a fit or
Ariel Mirabal: Something and she'll know Mom, stop. No, don't you know she'll get really upset about something and I'm not doing anything but trying to help her, you know. So I say, come down. Don't get too upset I'm just trying to help you.
Ariel Mirabal: Then she'll keep going and getting more upset that you're even in her way or something.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so let's talk about that for a second. Let's talk about I'm trying to help her.
Gwenevere Abriel: My ears are bad. So this isn't about you.
Ariel Mirabal: Know you're fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: You just have to keep reminding my new clients. My cuckoo bird thing I do here. So, so notice. Let's just see.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're trying to help her. Is it because you want to play with your daughter or she's doing it wrong. Like, tell me about why you come in there and help her.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm like, Just yesterday, when we're in the backyard when she's she has this is what I'm so sad about it because I feel like it's a little bit of me and her dad because we both have a little bit of a short fuse.
Ariel Mirabal: And I see in her all the time she gets so upset with something so fast. I mean, quickly.
Ariel Mirabal: And it's not just like you see a little kid going, Oh, well, her, her shoe fell off and I can't get it to go back on you know the Barbie shoe. It's like
Ariel Mirabal: Oh, like she gets really mad at the shoe that won't go back on. You know what I mean. So it's like oh my gosh she gets she's she goes from one to 10 within like two seconds.
Ariel Mirabal: But so yesterday in the backyard. For instance, riding her bike. She's doing really good. She's, she's just learned this past summer, how to ride her bike.
Ariel Mirabal: So she's over here, riding a bike and she gets mad when she kind of like, she'll get stuck on something and she needs help, and my
Ariel Mirabal: Mom, and then she'll start screaming like she wants me to help her. So I'll go over to help. And I'll give her like a little push, and then it's really like is short and then after that. I'm like, in her way she's like, okay, Mom get Stop, stop, yet yet, you know, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Right in there right in that moment, what do you do with the very next thing you do.
Ariel Mirabal: Um,
Ariel Mirabal: After helping her or after she gets mad.
Gwenevere Abriel: I finished, she says, Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine.
Ariel Mirabal: So now I've been able to just, that's what I call giving her her space. So I will just try to give her her space and okay, like, go ahead. Mommy's gonna leave you alone.
Ariel Mirabal: So what's been working a little bit too is just telling her like when she throws fits like that. I'll tell her. Okay, you know what
Ariel Mirabal: I'm not going to play with you if you're going to throw a fit. And so before it was like, ah, like, don't do that. And I would get so upset at her for for doing that now it's like okay, you're gonna act like that. I'm just going to walk away.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can I, can I say something. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's talk about what adults do. And you'll figure out what what's missing in here. If you remember, I'm not giving advice you do it, don't do it. That's up to you. I just, I love
Ariel Mirabal: I love advice.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, just as you were saying that I was like, there's a little recipe, a little missed opportunity for some shaping. Guess what, if I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: If I said you know what Arielle what I've done is
Gwenevere Abriel: I've been sort of keeping out on my schedule a place to kind of have timing during the week that really works around your child care really works around your sleep schedule your food prep and all those things. What would you say
Ariel Mirabal: Where I'm sorry, what's, what was the question if you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know wasn't a question. Let me try it again.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I gave you the perfect medicine that the next day you no longer had an urge to smoke. What would you say to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: First thing would you think of just now.
Ariel Mirabal: If you said you no longer had an urge or if I woke up and no longer have. I'm sorry. I'm like, missing it. I'm sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't be sorry. Just listen. Here we go. Ready.
Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll try another one.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just bought you a car. What do you say to me.
Ariel Mirabal: Oh my god, thank you so much, but I can't accept this.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's the first thing he said to me.
Ariel Mirabal: I said, Oh my gosh, or thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. What was the second one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thank you. Okay, let's rewind.
Gwenevere Abriel: To your daughter and you
Gwenevere Abriel: She asked for help. You did what
Ariel Mirabal: I helped her
Gwenevere Abriel: And she did what
Ariel Mirabal: She got upset.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what's missing.
Ariel Mirabal: Um,
Ariel Mirabal: I think, oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Thank you.
Ariel Mirabal: Thank you. I thought about that. But I don't know how it sounds. How it would sound in the middle of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. You want me to play with that a little bit. Do a little role play
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah. So we're always. I mean, I don't know what the family rules are in your home, but for some homes, not only are we shaping, you know, starting to extinguish negative behavior we're trying to reinforce positive behavior. So this could be an opportunity
Gwenevere Abriel: For shaping behavior.
Ariel Mirabal: You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: So it could be, you know what, sweet pea. This is what we do when someone comes and helps us the very next thing. And as quickly as an end as generously as we can. We say thank you mommy.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're wonderful, this would be a great time for you to say thank you mom. So I know that the help is done. It's a nice little sign and to help this done. That's a way to sell it to her.
Gwenevere Abriel: But really, it's also this very sweet thing we just do this little volley. That way it's back and forth. Then she has an option to get
Gwenevere Abriel: Overwhelming. It's just thank you mommy and off she goes, then we are showing sort of that interdependence, she can still ask for help. She has a really neat way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of kind of taking the help that she asked for and you're not going to intrude to give more it's done, it's over, and nobody's mad. In fact, it creates space for the next time.
Gwenevere Abriel: And nobody's going to be upset over it. You're happy to give it and then you're Oh you're so welcome. Let me know if you get stuck again and off you go look like you're having fun. So we'll be
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, this is what we do, you know, or right but it's going to take probably 15 times it's going to take a few. So then you say this to be a good time for. Thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So much
Gwenevere Abriel: All play. That's the language of a child's play, play, play. That's how they communicate is through games.
Ariel Mirabal: Sounds about right. Actually, I'm sorry. My phone is going to be a little dizzy. I'm just gonna walk inside really quick and peek on my little baby she was supposed to be asleep, a little bit longer than I thought this morning, but she woke up early, so
Ariel Mirabal: Make sure she's okay and
Ariel Mirabal: I think grandma just left to so I'll be here with her today, you know, Hey baby, yeah. Okay.
Ariel Mirabal: She's just watching cartoons. She should be okay.
Ariel Mirabal: Alrighty.
Gwenevere Abriel: What does this make you think about just this little, little exchange, we're having here.
Ariel Mirabal: What is it I'm like the conversation. What does it makes me think about
Ariel Mirabal: I mean, I guess my daughter. I'm always thinking about my daughter. And that's why she's like always, the number one thing that I'm always talking about she means so much to me. She's my number one. Go away. Dude, my dogs on my face.
Ariel Mirabal: But always always always thinking about my daughter and how ways that I can just be better all the time always ways I can be better.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this idea of
Gwenevere Abriel: My bringing some you didn't ask for anything right. I, I sort of put it out there.
Gwenevere Abriel: It happens to be something you said you were interested in, but
Gwenevere Abriel: For some would be like, well, who asked you, I didn't say I already know what to do.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, well,
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's kind of what I'm checking in on is there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there an interest in continuing like I feel like I don't know what to do. Sometimes, this was so why don't we cross check to what the modeling was in your childhood.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where, where, how were you taught about how to accept help. And there's different kinds of health. There's how to accept help that we asked for.
Gwenevere Abriel: Someone forcing help when we already feel capable. In fact, we want to feel smart ourselves and capable and it's forced on us and it's like it doesn't feel like help it feels intrusive.
Ariel Mirabal: I think that over my time and like my adult years i've i've grown with that a little bit more than what I was raised with because now I am a little bit more open minded and accepting for help.
Ariel Mirabal: Different sorts like emotional health as well as
Ariel Mirabal: Like
Ariel Mirabal: I guess just emotional health and you know what I mean, things like that. But my mom has she's always been the person, my parents, my dad.
Ariel Mirabal: I mean, not so much. But my mom basically instilled in us that
Ariel Mirabal: I mean, just don't ask for help, unless you absolutely have to. It was one of the most you know if you want things done the right way you do it yourself and don't ever ask help
Ariel Mirabal: Ask for help, unless you absolutely have to. And so I mean all of my life growing up. I've as soon as I was out on my own. That was it. I've never
Ariel Mirabal: I've been through struggles in my life, but I've never called my mom or dad and said, hey, I need 20 bucks. You know, I was raised to never do that. So there's never been like, hey, I need help, you know, it's been
Ariel Mirabal: Shit, this is my life. I'm on my own now, this is I gotta do this, you know, so that's kind of how when it comes like advice and somebody like offering their help and the lending hand and things. It's also hard for me to accept somebody to help
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I saw a little bit of that in here, it wasn't, it wasn't like grievous, but it was sort of clunky like like not really sort of intuitively knowing
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Oh my gosh, came first, like shock.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, like taking back by something and not being able to accept it because it's too too much, you know, or
Ariel Mirabal: You know, I don't think I've ever been given and something that I've had to like declined, but
Ariel Mirabal: I've, I've, I've said no to offerings of help before you know and then even sometimes when there's people that are like sometimes, you know, everybody needs help sometimes and it's okay to ask for help and
Ariel Mirabal: I've heard that a million times, but it's not something I can do. I just can't ask people for help.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's going to show up in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've learned at this point that typically if we have a particular dynamic elsewhere, it'll show up in really sort of even microscopic ways in the therapeutic relationship, it'll show up in here.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm definitely that person.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's see if we can stack me up on maybe some books like something up. So you and I can see each other I level. Do you have maybe like some Tupperware or
Ariel Mirabal: I do or something, but I'm just and you know what my daughter is the only person care. So I can actually sit
Gwenevere Abriel: When she knows where you are.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Ariel Mirabal: He's in the living room watching cartoons. Let me see here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, that's fantastic. That's nice, nice high level.
Ariel Mirabal: Is that better. Okay.
Wonderful.
Gwenevere Abriel: So as I was saying, there will be a dynamics that are probably familiar to you. It will play out in here too.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to invite you to go outside of what's familiar to stretch to grow, you can ask for help, meaning, and I don't really see it as help. I see it as more like just information you're asking someone's
Gwenevere Abriel: professional opinion actual experience no clinical understanding what's the, what's the physiology behind that that that doesn't speak to a deficit of yours because I happen to have a different skill set, it doesn't
Gwenevere Abriel: make you weak because I have a strength, it doesn't work. Inversely, like that. It doesn't, you know, this happens to be a very unique relationship. It's not quite as reciprocal as our typical ones you're going to remain the taker for 99.9% of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it might, it might feel a little uncomfortable for you. So tell me what's going on with your shoulders.
I
Ariel Mirabal: I slept a little weird or I don't know if it happened just this morning. But when I was like
Ariel Mirabal: rolling over and trying to get out of bed. I think I pulled something and why like shoulder and it hurts so bad. So I've been sitting here all morning like trying to figure out why it's hurting so bad.
Ariel Mirabal: That it's like it's like nerve somewhere that I've never felt before. And it's Oh god, it's so uncomfortable. So I'm going like waving my
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well keep keep paying attention to it. I want you to take care of yourself.
Ariel Mirabal: Weird, but it's. It'll be all right. Just a pinch or something.
Ariel Mirabal: So like
Gwenevere Abriel: It to the degree that you can kind of do this with me. I'd like to do a little bit of, see if they put it in here for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to do some of this preparation work.
Gwenevere Abriel: See how much time we have half hour.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. All right, let's do a couple of things that are what I will call preparation and resourcing okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Put that will put that up in
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm putting the plan that's not in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's do this. I'd like to work it, work with imagery
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And I want to do a few exercises. One of them is a container and emotional container. One of them is a distancing metaphor and the other one's a little bit longer. Not sure we'll have time for it, but I'm going to try and it has to do with three resource characters.
Gwenevere Abriel: That I may incorporate in some of the work that we do other types of techniques. But it's nice for me to kind of know where your go to Resources are so I can bring in some imagery, some sort of the way that you say I need to think about the outcome.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can shift the neural network fisherman and you can focus where you want to
Gwenevere Abriel: If I kind of know where your resources are, I can say that my can remind you if something's going on. I can say them out loud, it'll be in a section. The plan section.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where they're going to be there. They're going to follow us all the way through treatment. So I can bring us back. And instead, I don't have to keep asking you, it'll be right there.
Gwenevere Abriel: And yes, you have. I don't think you've had a lot a lot of therapy. So if you want to laugh at me, you
Ariel Mirabal: You're more than welcome to but
Gwenevere Abriel: Again, you know, firstly, if it seems totally ridiculous plenty of people have said this is just to cookie can't. But everybody ends up doing it once you get past the giggle um
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's fun. So, let's say, let's start with the first one. Let's do a really, really easy one.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm sure, or I imagine you've probably said, oh, you know, I know how to compartmentalize I know how to push off to the side, this memory. This spot and compartmentalize me that's a term that I think I'm mainstream psychology offers people I know how to block it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right right blocked it out for the day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Painter is so we're going to actually get an image of it. So let me give an instruction. Let's develop an emotional
Gwenevere Abriel: And painter. Here are the instructions and this is the right side of your brain right now. It's not literal. This is metaphor. This is imagination. Okay, so let's go to I
Gwenevere Abriel: Want you to think of a container and here are the requirements.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is big enough.
Gwenevere Abriel: Strong enough to hold and contain all of your emotional stuff can be anything. Try not to censor yourself. You can just try to track was your first idea was big enough strong enough to hold all your emotional stuff, what comes up for you.
Ariel Mirabal: The first thing that popped up was a library.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. And what, what's the library made of
Ariel Mirabal: brick walls. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And kind of how big is it
Ariel Mirabal: I'm
Ariel Mirabal: A cathedral. That's my daughter, she's right here.
I figured
Ariel Mirabal: Maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so Cathedral. So I'll say
Gwenevere Abriel: A theatrical size library made of brick walls. Am I getting that
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Okay. Beautiful. So I have a sense, a sense of its size. I have a sense of its material. And now, how will all of that stuff. Let's say you decide to put it in there for a day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or even for an hour and we want to compartmentalize me. Let's say we're running out of time. And we've only got five minutes left in the session and something really
Gwenevere Abriel: Significant came up for you and I might invite you, let's let's take what's coming up for you right now and let's put it in this library and let's make sure it stays. So my question to you is, how is it going to stay in there.
Ariel Mirabal: Like an if it's like an issue or something problematic coming up right now that I'm thinking about
Gwenevere Abriel: How I'm going to keep it in there.
Ariel Mirabal: As well, of course, trying to
Ariel Mirabal: Block it out, trying not
Gwenevere Abriel: Now we're just so go back to metaphor. We know we know the size and we know what is the material. How you gonna keep that stuff in in the container.
Ariel Mirabal: lock the door.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here we go with my, like, I like it out. Be specific.
Ariel Mirabal: Lock it with the key.
Gwenevere Abriel: The key.
Ariel Mirabal: I do
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what kind of key is it it's
Ariel Mirabal: A metal key.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so just your regular like nothing, you know, just like
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'll SCHLAG
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: The one that you're the only one that has the key.
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, my the one key.
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful. You got it. I would have gotten you there eventually. If you hadn't come up with that.
Ariel Mirabal: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: I used to say it like this and this just utterly confused. Most people about some interesting. I got some interesting answers from it. Typically, I would say this. What's going to make that stuff, want to stay in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Get a different answer. I've gotten different answers for that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Some people said, Oh, there's a disco ball. There's velvet pillows. It's like genie in a bottle.
Gwenevere Abriel: Want to stay because there's a whole lot more fun in there than it is coming out here. One person said, I don't give a flying all that stuff, you just stay in there and have a pity party ain't coming out anyway misery loves company can stand now care.
You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Like just, I was like, Oh, such a cool. So although it's a really fun, fun question um
Gwenevere Abriel: This one really gets to the metaphor of it's a container. It's lockable there's a, you know, there's obviously a door. There's a locking system you have the one key. So then you decide when you want to open it and take a peek and take
Ariel Mirabal: On what you want.
Ariel Mirabal: So what's going to make it want to stay in there.
Ariel Mirabal: That's a really good one.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, that's really cool. The first thing I could think of when you said that was
Ariel Mirabal: I did not really like I really wrap my mind around it. What's going to make you want to stay in there. So I would say the
Ariel Mirabal: Remembering remembering how bad it felt to be in that time.
Ariel Mirabal: Or you know how bad the outcome was just remembering the negative feelings.
Ariel Mirabal: Is going to
Ariel Mirabal: Make me want to keep them in there, but it's not. I don't know if it's kind of what's going to make them want to stay in there as a different question.
So,
Gwenevere Abriel: With that
You've got something so
Ariel Mirabal: Okay.
If we stay with metaphor.
Ariel Mirabal: Say this
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm the
Gwenevere Abriel: The reason why you're carrying in this
Today, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All the behavior associated
Ariel Mirabal: Here.
Ariel Mirabal: And assuming
Gwenevere Abriel: The negative outcome.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Watch this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is right outside the door. So watch if I leave it inside locked up. Wait, wait, I'm going to stay in here because if I open up the door and go outside.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm unleashed.
Gwenevere Abriel: And here.
Ariel Mirabal: Remember that outcome you started today with
Gwenevere Abriel: There's all these outcomes. I felt about the outcome. So it net must know as it sits inside the cathedral. If I go outside.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to blast the world with negativity. I'm going to have loss of money job respect.
Gwenevere Abriel: guilt, shame, I don't know what your outcome stories are you just said a lot about the negative outcome. You didn't give me a lot of stories about it. But do you see that that might be what will keep it inside. Well, if I go outside.
Gwenevere Abriel: All this, I'm going to really lay flat this this woman and her core values. So maybe it will want to stay inside. Maybe there's a poster on the door. Push handle only when
Gwenevere Abriel: emergency exit only, like, I don't know. That's how we stay with metaphor and it forces us to really see it forces the mind to really take a look at causal relationships, two things.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's kind of an interesting thing.
Ariel Mirabal: There.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are you thinking about
Ariel Mirabal: This
Ariel Mirabal: She's like, well,
Ariel Mirabal: I'm it's just it's a really interesting question.
Ariel Mirabal: What would make it one to stay in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, let's do some more of these. I think it'll, it'll come on its own. Watch. Let's do the next one. Watch this. That wouldn't that when we're done. That was gorgeous. Let's do the next one. It let it come organically it
Gwenevere Abriel: Just goes, Oh my gosh, those are those are the keepers. So let's do the next one. I think you're gonna like this one, next one is a distancing one for to not only is this concept of container as cathedral like that is not a little box that's like right
Gwenevere Abriel: Profound right, in a sense, that's my impression and it's made it sort of this brick.
Gwenevere Abriel: solid material to now I want you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Have a distancing metaphor.
Gwenevere Abriel: So for some people, it'll look like this. I'm on the riverbank and
Gwenevere Abriel: I have a memory of something and I place it on a leaf and I watch it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sort of be pumped up and down as it goes down the creek and hit the rocks and sort of move and
Gwenevere Abriel: And I watch it, but it moves further and further away to the point that oh I can't see it anymore.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I stay grounded on the riverbank
Gwenevere Abriel: I might also Stephen inside a balloon right and
Gwenevere Abriel: Get some helium in there and make a little think food and let it go and it just goes into the atmosphere and I watch it. In fact, I can't distinguish it anymore from the blue. Like, I can't even tell a corn. It's gone.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it drifted off sort of slowly for some people is a rocket ship. They're like, I need this out a year now.
Gwenevere Abriel: And off it goes. Shooting Star.
Gwenevere Abriel: For some people it's a sailboat, as they say, on mature and it slowly sales away and they can see it people. It's a ship for some people, this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm driving in my car and I'm heading in this direction as my arms are and I see coming towards me girl and it passes by just so briefly and I see it only for a second and then I watched it in my rearview mirror
Gwenevere Abriel: And I keep my eye on my destination and I look in the rearview mirror and then
Gwenevere Abriel: I can't even see it back there anymore, but it's certainly going in the opposite direction. I can't even see it. So you notice how they're all or this one also train
Gwenevere Abriel: Fun. One of the cars and, you know, maybe you can even picture the wording of it and it moves.
You can hear it clack, clack, clack, clack, clack, and it moves further and further away.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can no longer hear it distinguished from the sounds around you and now you can't even tell you can't hear it. You can't see it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you're allowed left grounded right here okay and fine. You get the idea.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. What is
Ariel Mirabal: Like you just start forgetting, not necessarily forgetting about it, but you're not necessarily remembering it. It's you've you've locked it away for such a long time that that bad memory or whatever it was just starts to fade away.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that is the reason, what's sounds like that might be a reason for you to use it. But I am being literal. You remember that you actually told me the image of the container.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'd like to hear from you what will be our distancing metaphor that if I see you in distress and I invite you to use a distancing metaphor to get some distance from the intensity of an emotion, a thought or a memory, we can put it in this metaphor.
Ariel Mirabal: You are
Gwenevere Abriel: What metaphor came up
Gwenevere Abriel: I can write down
Ariel Mirabal: I don't even know.
Ariel Mirabal: I really liked if we're
Ariel Mirabal: I mean those
Ariel Mirabal: The very first question that you asked.
Ariel Mirabal: I already forgot what it was. My mind is like dancing around me right now. I'm thinking too hard now.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are so so Arielle you have a therapist. That's me. You get a break. You use your analytical mind in a really beautiful way, but you can take a break.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can you can let this therapeutic process unfold, you can relax and receive help
Gwenevere Abriel: You can let me do that part. I'll do all the psychoanalysis, I'll do that. That's why I'm here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Use you can free up your mind to have a first response you have them and then you analyze
Gwenevere Abriel: Which one's the right one done it all these things. I don't know what's going on. But you don't have to do that. That's what I was saying. Early on, try not to censor. Let me just see. As I was giving you those examples which one. If you go wow I'm stupid or oh hey I kind of, I like that.
Ariel Mirabal: One that I just can't remember what the question was, but it was the one that I last one, the one that I was like really stuck on that was really an interesting question. Um, I think it was
Ariel Mirabal: What would make it what would make them want to stay in there, your memories want to stay in the
Gwenevere Abriel: Base. You know, is it so that you stay kind of stuck on that. And even though I get like five examples of distancing metaphors, you kind of tuned out a little bit. Is that possible.
Ariel Mirabal: Um, possibly. I'm not sure. But I think that I was just thinking entirely too hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, because this is a completely different tasks we were done with container. We've moved on.
Gwenevere Abriel: To another one. And I gave you some examples of distancing
Ariel Mirabal: Metaphors
Gwenevere Abriel: You remember either one. Let me just check and see if you remember any of the little things. I just did in front of you right maybe distancing metaphor. First, let me make sure you you know what a metaphor is so I'm not using the wrong word.
Ariel Mirabal: Thank you. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's no way. There's no way for you to do this wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no way for you to do this wrong.
Ariel Mirabal: So you don't have to
Gwenevere Abriel: Worry that you're doing this wrong. All you have to do is just lean in to the next question.
To the next invitation.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's just start just want to check and see how where your mind was because I did like five different examples. I want to know if you're kind of remember any of them have a distancing
Gwenevere Abriel: What it for you remember any of the little roll the little metaphors. I did just five minutes ago, two months ago.
Ariel Mirabal: Not specifically. I mean, I was listening and watching. It's kind of like one of those you're listening, but you're not hearing. I mean, I'm so tune in to what you're saying but i just i don't know i
Gwenevere Abriel: Interesting. So, you know,
Ariel Mirabal: Maybe I was thinking I think I'm still because I was still like stuck on your last question, trying to like explain to myself.
Ariel Mirabal: Oh my gosh, I think I was literally thinking about that still while I was trying to listen to what you were saying. So I don't specifically remember all or any of those
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe not any
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's the neat thing. So I'm going to put a little pin in this right now. Number one, I want to give you some some props for hopefully not getting offended or hurt because I'm focusing in
Gwenevere Abriel: On I'm trying to see where your mind goes kind of how it works.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so you really stay quite interested in this particular question and you weren't done yet. You wanted to kind of keep processing it and I had moved on with the next activity.
Gwenevere Abriel: And kind of hear sound coming out of me and see my little hands moving up but you weren't processing what I was doing. And so that it really didn't get started.
Ariel Mirabal: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: We have, we have only so much. It's like our, our desk it. That's our working memory. We don't have we can have everything on it, we can only be thinking about
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of one thing. So I invited that container to be done if you weren't done. So let's go back to that one. You seem very interested in this enough, if that's as far as we get today that's okay too. I told you no wrong way to do it. We've got to do it on your face.
Ariel Mirabal: And that's okay. I'm just, I think that I was really just
Ariel Mirabal: I don't know why. Honestly, I just was really stuck on that question, it's
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Ariel Mirabal: I don't know. I mean, that was still I basically can't even I'm still trying to and there is something you said that was I was still thinking about to I was picturing the whatever person had said the
Ariel Mirabal: There was cool things in there like the leather chair.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah so funny. But I mean I'm literally I'm still thinking about what would really what would keep
Ariel Mirabal: Them in there, what would
Ariel Mirabal: What would make them want to stay in there. What I'm trying to say. I literally I'm still so stuck on that question.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, then we'll spend time on it, why don't we do this. I love metaphors. Why don't we stop calling it them. And let's give it a list. What do we really
Gwenevere Abriel: As I labeled an emotional container.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what are you thinking specifically
Ariel Mirabal: There's good and bad memories. I guess I, of course, everyone's got both good and bad are we talking about both
Gwenevere Abriel: And maybe that's the problem.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know that we really want to put in there. The good ones.
Ariel Mirabal: Right, because we're trying to keep them in there. We're not trying to put away the good memories, right, just the bad ones.
Gwenevere Abriel: About we say a negative emotional container. Now let's get
Gwenevere Abriel: Negative
Gwenevere Abriel: Negative anything memory.
Gwenevere Abriel: Physical pain emotional pain right
Gwenevere Abriel: Negative self appraisal. It can be anything.
Ariel Mirabal: There's just a thought. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's going to make it want to stay in there.
Ariel Mirabal: Gonna make a mistake in their cars. That's such. I don't know why that's so hard for me to
Gwenevere Abriel: Everyone, that's why I stopped asking it because it's so difficult.
Ariel Mirabal: To think
Gwenevere Abriel: I know well I've got what we can come at it we can again. What if we had that if you trusted the unconscious, a little bit and just let it come organically, the answer will come. Now I gave you one, actually, I gave you this poster.
Ariel Mirabal: I gave you something.
Gwenevere Abriel: It didn't stick it didn't work for you. But that was when you thought that good memories to work in there.
Ariel Mirabal: Right. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: But let's shift for just a second. Let that sit in the back in the in the unconscious let it sit back or see if you have any self trust, just to let the unconscious sort of let let black come up with one phone you can focus on that I'm about to introduce something else. Do you remember
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you remember the first day we met after the bio psychosocial that I said I kind of think I distinguish the addict voice from the authentic voice. I kind of take the self and split it down. Remember that
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: What if we did that. And we said, What would keep the attic in the Cathedral.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, that's a better way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, there we go. What's gonna want help that addict stay in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll shut up.
Ariel Mirabal: That's okay. I'm just thinking about my mind positive actions. I'm still really I don't think I'm thinking too much too far outside of the box yet but I'm just thinking about what how the way that you just asked
Ariel Mirabal: I mean my positivity my my happiness my positive actions to things or actions or reactions to things would make
Ariel Mirabal: I guess that's more of still would make me want to keep those things in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's all that's the problem. So when we get when we step out of we we say, okay, I'm going to characterize these because it obviously know it's all you. But for this to work. We got it, take it out and you got to use symbols and we
Got
Gwenevere Abriel: We got to pull them apart.
Gwenevere Abriel: Bad guy good guy devil angel, you know, we pull them addict and Arielle
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to help Arielle whoops, or else the white one obviously a cliched
Gwenevere Abriel: Can help it. So this is you, the authentic self.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is right. This is the one that we want to keep in the in the
Gwenevere Abriel: In the, in the library.
Gwenevere Abriel: How is it going to survive in there. What is it going to feed off of what will sustain it. What will happen if it stays in there.
Ariel Mirabal: Is what's going to make it want to stay in there is being surrounded, probably by all of its continuous negativity. Those are all the negative thoughts. So it's going to be, it's going to want to be surrounded by all of its negativity. So it's going to be
Ariel Mirabal: It's going to want to stay in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: And do you know what fuels.
Ariel Mirabal: The edit going to need
Ariel Mirabal: Off of those emotions those cravings for the alcohol or the substance, the addiction itself, it's, it's going to feed off of your cravings there and the negativity, I guess. Okay, and that's going to make it want to stay in
Ariel Mirabal: Itself.
Ariel Mirabal: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Say we say that this is this is addiction. It's addict voice is addiction is the addict, as many new ways and unfortunately this field really struggles with its own name, actually. But anyway, so we'll call this the addict.
Gwenevere Abriel: Will will how they want to stay in there is when
Gwenevere Abriel: You get a craving.
Gwenevere Abriel: Craving, and there will lock it up.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you have a negative thought. You can see this with a negative thought and good luck with them.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I would add
Gwenevere Abriel: One more thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: I would add that what fuels.
Gwenevere Abriel: The addict, the most
Ariel Mirabal: Say that one more time.
Gwenevere Abriel: What heals the addict is shame.
Gwenevere Abriel: So as soon as you dip into I'm a bad person. I'm a bad mom I did bad I am bad even a fraction of a second, the second to catch one of those, and I am
Gwenevere Abriel: Not smart enough good enough.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not enough, stick it in there and addict. Just gonna just love it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell you what it does absolutely nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Games.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which I haven't gotten into which is a really important distinction that I invite people to play with, um, but I imagine that you're still really trying to work that first question, what will be what will the attic want inside the library.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that it doesn't want to come out.
Come up with some things
Ariel Mirabal: Continue feeding it with my negative thoughts get it once know put them in there and don't let them out. And of course, when you're feeding it what it wants. It's not going to want to come out.
Ariel Mirabal: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: The Burger King. So one concern. I don't want to take a chance that what feeding looks like as you continue to think of them.
Ariel Mirabal: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that concerns me because when I know about
Ariel Mirabal: If we continue
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's what creating typically is for people. They won't know where that first thought came from. It was a smell it was
Gwenevere Abriel: Something I saw it was
Gwenevere Abriel: So frustrated with a relationship. They're not really aware of the proceedings stimulus there sure where have
Gwenevere Abriel: A picture of pills a picture relief. The and then it continuously keep adding a lie might still know someone. Why would feel really good. Keep feeding that thought.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's my concern, not what I'm wanting. I'm going with your metaphor, because I haven't done this with anyone quite the way we're doing it together. My concern has to do with the verb.
Gwenevere Abriel: I like the
Ariel Mirabal: Way like feeding it and putting it away.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: As in, you had this thought you love you put it away. You did not
Gwenevere Abriel: Find more of his buddies.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Ariel Mirabal: You're not like, okay, I see what you're saying. You're not feeding it, you're just exactly you're you're putting it away.
Ariel Mirabal: Lock it up.
Ariel Mirabal: Walking away. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It can't get to you.
Ariel Mirabal: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you are the you're the authentic self. You're the woman that loves her daughter wants to do the next right thing wants to move another generation forward with loving kindness communication compassion growth, development.
Right, yeah.
Yeah.
Ariel Mirabal: Are
Ariel Mirabal: You
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. So I think, I think we're good on that. I think I feel better about I don't want you to keep thinking right
Ariel Mirabal: Yes, yes, absolutely.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wow, we really got deep into that metaphor. And now we've got two minutes. One minute.
Ariel Mirabal: I was so stuck in that for such a such a while.
Gwenevere Abriel: It might have quite a profound impact when you and I, we might have really solidify it to the point that when you and I are doing other work.
Gwenevere Abriel: And something's going on. I can quickly redirect and you will know just what to do now, because you spend so much time with it. And I would say now when you get a craving.
Gwenevere Abriel: Have a negative self appraisal appraisal. Like I could have been here in my life, or look what I did when you have one of those you immediately.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't even know if there's like a little drop in the top of the ceiling, open it and just drop it in.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you don't even have to open the front door. Don't know what your system kind of me really getting into that before it's locked up can't get out it satiated with more negative, right. More shame sting field in there and then eventually, maybe you and I will talk about
Gwenevere Abriel: History
Ariel Mirabal: Yes.
Ariel Mirabal: That sounds like a plan.
Gwenevere Abriel: Long term, maybe we don't want to feed it anymore.
Ariel Mirabal: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I think I think you're getting it.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, absolutely.
Gwenevere Abriel: That was fun.
Gwenevere Abriel: We've got one minute left here, why don't you kind of kind of go inside for little self reflection just sort of as if you know this movie was rewind from the beginning, you see, how we started and how it progressed and how we are
Ariel Mirabal: Into the session.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just see what you're coming away with
Ariel Mirabal: From all of what we've talked about today.
Ariel Mirabal: Is that what you mean. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: open ended question. Yes.
Ariel Mirabal: Um, well, first of all, that question.
Ariel Mirabal: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: You
Ariel Mirabal: Just about how I feel in general.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wide open question. What are you noticing about you.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm just noticing a lot I'm noticing a lot of change about me.
Ariel Mirabal: I'm definitely being able to
Ariel Mirabal: Do things I can even say a little bit more openly. I'm like,
Ariel Mirabal: I'm a lot more calm. I'm able to keep myself calm when I'm you know when something's happening instead of getting all worked up right away.
Ariel Mirabal: It seems like my patients is a lot better with my daughter. And like I said things around around here. I just feel like a, I feel like a calmer person I know that I'm the same person and you don't just change overnight, but I feel
Ariel Mirabal: I feel at peace. Right now I feel totally okay. And I don't think that I could have said that a week ago.
Ariel Mirabal: Yeah, absolutely. It feels really good. I'm intense i'm i'm content. Excuse me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Another appointment for next week. This happens and was like, I'm alternating with
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's try something else here. How about
Gwenevere Abriel: Which group, are you in which day
Ariel Mirabal: It's tomorrow. It's Thursday at 11am
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you able to make it to an 8am appointment next Tuesday. Can you make it to that.
Ariel Mirabal: Oh yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's our next April April.
Gwenevere Abriel: April 7 at eight A. M. I have a group at seven. So if I'm a couple minutes late. I don't take it personally. It just means I'm trying to wrap up last minute tiny little things. OK.
Gwenevere Abriel: OK, you get like 745 730 just sort of jump in. Do that bands. I am here and then you and I will meet at ATM. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you do I need to send a message to the doc about medication. Are you do you have enough to get to your next group that's all
Ariel Mirabal: I should be okay for until tomorrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: See you tomorrow.
Ariel Mirabal: You tomorrow. Thank you. Glenn.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi, Erica.
Erica Valdez: Good morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Morning.
Erica Valdez: I'm sorry I was trying to get everything done before you answered and just making my baby a bottle and then I'll go sit in place.
Gwenevere Abriel: I have. I'm going to log out and I have two separate
Gwenevere Abriel: Things. So I'm going to log out. I was going to touch you, but I decided to just jump in here and tell you in person. So we close out and then just come right back.
Erica Valdez: Okay. Sounds good.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll see you in like 20 seconds.
Erica Valdez: Awesome. Sounds good.
Erica Valdez: Bye.